**Appendix C: Challenges to Implementing Federal-Wide Perimeter-Based
Security**

Today, the Federal Government applies a defense-in-depth strategy to
protect its systems that includes agency and DHS-provided protections at
various levels. But, at the same time, Government-wide programs overly
rely on a perimeter-based security model to protect the Government’s
networks and information systems. This model, formalized in OMB
Memorandum M-08-05, *Implementation of Trusted Internet Connections
(TIC)*, focuses on standardizing security at the network boundary
through consolidation of external access points. Under this model, the
Government has required agencies to reduce external connections, to a
target of 50, and route their traffic through this limited number of
secure gateways. These gateways apply common intrusion detection and
prevention capabilities under DHS’s National Cybersecurity Protection
System (NCPS). NCPS consists of three sensor capabilities (collectively
referred to as EINSTEIN), as well as a set of analytic tools used by
cyber analysts to find, identify and categorize cyber threat activity.
[^29]

The NCPS sensor suite is deployed in three iterations: EINSTEIN 1 (E1),
which captures and analyzes network flow information; EINSTEIN 2 (E2),
which incorporates intrusion detection technology that scans the content
of network communications to identify and alert to known indications of
malicious activity; and EINSTEIN 3-Accelerated (E3A), which detects and
blocks malicious activity through DNS sinkholing and email filtering.

This perimeter-based architecture has created several challenges,
specifically regarding adoption of commercial cloud and mobile
technologies. Additionally, signature-based detection and protections
systems provide value, but are not enough to combat the full spectrum of
advanced persistent threats that rapidly change attack vectors, tactics,
techniques, and procedures.[^30]^,^ [^31] All of these challenges are
acknowledged and understood by DHS, and efforts are underway to address
these specific issues.

As an overarching effort, DHS has undertaken a cybersecurity
architectural review of Federal, Civilian, and Executive Branch
infrastructure to capture empirical data, which will be used to
determine the efficacy of individual and collective groupings of
capabilities against specific threats to that architecture. This data
will then be used to guide the evolution of DHS cyber program
capabilities, to include NCPS and the CDM program.

In addition to the holistic architecture review, DHS has continuously
assessed its programs to determine if the program investments they are
making are appropriate. As part of this continuous assessment, DHS has
identified several challenges that must be addressed to improve and
deliver value to its Federal Executive Branch stakeholder community.
These challenges include:

1.  Cloud Security and Situational Awareness

2.  Encrypted Network Traffic

3.  Overreliance on Static Signatures

4.  Use and Value of Classified Indicators

**Cloud Security and Situational Awareness**

Federal agencies have started to embrace the use of cloud services to
include Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service
(PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS), which has the promise to move
much of the Federal Executive Branch’s computing and data to
commercially available cloud environments, outside of traditional
network boundaries. In doing so, the emphasis on protecting and
monitoring perimeter connections of trusted networks at a limited number
of physical TIC access points has introduced performance degradation.
This has discouraged agencies from fully adopting cloud services, and
undermines many of their key benefits such as reducing costs,
flexibility, time-to-deploy, and availability and reliability. An
example of a current network routing challenge for agencies that have
adopted cloud services is an agency that has implemented a public-facing
web service must route user traffic through a limited number of physical
TIC access points for inspection, which in turn introduces latency. The
diagram below illustrates how this approach is currently implemented, in
a phenomenon known as “the network trombone,” which constrains the
benefits of cloud services by forcing users to route traffic through a
physical network location rather than being able to connect directly to
the cloud service.

![ATC Networks - TIC
Trombone.png](media/image4.png){width="6.499209317585302in"
height="3.7777777777777777in"}

To address this situation, DHS has engaged with three large cloud
service providers to determine how DHS may gain the insight and
situational awareness from within the cloud that is similar to the
information that is gained from its E1 and E2 sensors that are deployed
at the TICs. The focus of this engagement thus far has been the
collection of internal cloud log data, specific to the agency
application and data that could be fed back to DHS to provide a similar
level of situational awareness to DHS cyber analysts.

**Encrypted Network Traffic**

As the use of cloud and web services continues to expand, so has the use
of network transport security in the form of encrypted tunnels between
end users and their applications and data. The use of transport
encryption is critical for secure communications, but limits what is
visible to a perimeter-based monitoring system such as E1 or E2. The
amount of network traffic that is encrypted that passes through E1 and
E2 sensors has increased over time, with 47 percent of all traffic being
encrypted as of December 2016. This continued growth of encrypted
network traffic has limited the functionality and usefulness of E1 and
E2 sensors and has made it difficult for DHS to inspect this traffic for
cyber threats. For DHS E2 sensors, this means that DHS signatures are
unable to inspect the content of network communications and alert on
malicious content.

Continued growth in encryption is both beneficial and inevitable, and
DHS has commissioned research to determine potential architectural,
technical, and policy mitigation strategies that could provide DHS with
both the protection and situational awareness for encrypted traffic.
Some of the mitigation strategies currently under evaluation include:

1.  **Sensor Placement**. This involves relocating the E1 and E2 sensors
    where the traffic is decrypted (e.g., endpoints of an encrypted
    tunnel). In the cases of virtual private network tunnels, one could
    place sensors outside of encrypted areas. For cloud environments,
    investigation is needed to determine how these sensors could be
    virtualized and placed in physical or virtual locations where
    Government applications and data exist.

2.  **Man-In-The-Middle (MITM) Interception**. This involves deploying
    MITM technologies that decrypt traffic, inspect it, and re-encrypt
    it, by placing a proxy along the network path. This proxy falsely
    pretends to each side to be the other side of the communications.
    Network proxies that intercept Transport Layer Security (TLS)
    traffic via MITM are commercially available. Usually this requires
    local clients to have blanket trust of this proxy.

3.  **Key Escrow**. This involves gaining access to decryption keys
    (e.g., as part of a broader certificate management system and
    architecture). A key escrow approach requires clients to register
    keys with a trusted third party.

**Overreliance on Static Signatures**

The use of signatures, or software code that inspects network traffic to
look for known content, ports, and protocols, has been a fundamental
part of cybersecurity practice. Similar to how anti-virus software
works, intrusion detection and prevention technologies inspect traffic
to look for matches against signatures of known malicious content or
behavior. Although signature-based technology is widely accepted as an
effective and necessary piece of cyber defense, it is not enough to
protect against the most advanced and persistent threats facing the
Government today. NCPS uses signatures within their E2 intrusion
detection and E3A prevention capability areas. In recognition of the
limitations of signature-only systems, DHS has been piloting an
anomalous analytics capability that leverages artificial intelligence to
detect malicious activity across networks that will allow DHS to both
respond to previously unidentified incidents. DHS can then rapidly
generate new signatures for both EINSTEIN sensors and agency defenses to
protect the Government from those threats. DHS has seen some early
success from this pilot and is planning to build a production-grade
system that could be deployed at various points across the .gov
architecture, both inside and outside agency network and computing
enclaves.

**Use and Value of Classified Indicators**

The use of signatures in intrusion detection and prevention systems are
based on pieces of information known as cyber threat indicators. These
“indicators” can be any piece of observable information about the
network traffic such as an Internet Protocol (IP) address, domain name,
or file hash, that may indicate whether the traffic entering or exiting
a network may be suspicious or malicious. DHS sources its indicators
from multiple sources to include in-house analysis of Government
traffic, commercial and open-source cyber threat data, and the
intelligence community. Although all of the signatures within the E2
system are unclassified, significant portions of the signatures in the
E3A intrusion prevention capability are classified. The use of
classified indicators and signatures within the E3A system has been a
long-standing challenge for the NCPS program because of the
unprecedented way in which classified information is placed on
unclassified networks for the purposes of protecting unclassified .gov
network traffic. The continued use of classified information in E3A has
been recognized as a cost and schedule driver, as well as limiting the
range of technical capabilities available. Moreover, the use of
classified information has limited the ability of DHS to engage and
communicate with the agencies it helps to protect because not all
agencies have personnel with the appropriate security clearances to
discuss the indicators or the alerts that are generated by the system.
To address this issue, DHS has commissioned a study to understand the
value of using classified indicators within E3A to determine if their
use should be continued, or if DHS and the agencies would be better
served by using only unclassified information.

**Appendix D: Acquisition Pilot: Change the Buying Strategy to
Government-As-One-Purchaser**

The Government must pursue new acquisition strategies for cloud email
and collaboration licenses. In furtherance of this objective, pilots
such as the example outlined in this Appendix may be executed to
decrease the administrative acquisition burden, specifically for smaller
agencies who cannot leverage large volume discounts or who have
acquisition workforce constraints. Additional pilots to leverage the
Government as one purchaser and speed cloud adoption may include the
ability to purchase cloud services on a consumption basis and
coordinated purchasing to obtain tiered-based pricing.

Several challenges must be overcome in the acquisition cycle in order to
comply with EO 13800 and facilitate shared services, such as cloud
email. Budgets are constrained by yearly appropriations, and agencies
work autonomously, which reduces the Government’s ability to look at its
purchasing as a whole. Legacy procurement and security regulations,
coupled with lack of top down guidance for the logistics of a
Government-wide migration to cloud email challenge cloud adoption.

By creating virtual “street corners” for cloud email providers the
Federal Government can use competing market forces to drive
Government-wide volume pricing as a lever to speed migration. This will
apply Hotelling’s Law of spatial competition, wherein Government’s
potential purchasing power will be used to negotiate tiered pricing
agreements directly with the providers and result in publicly displayed
price points, total number of licenses purchased, and the remaining
number of mailboxes that need to be migrated. This volume pricing would
serve as the base rate for any license purchased by the Government.

Public Dashboard Example (Cloud-Based E-mail)\*

In this scenario, data would be recorded and displayed publicly with the
current negotiated pricing tiers, along with any incentive pricing based
on other factors such as the company’s quarterly sales cycles.

  ---------------------------------- -------------------------------
  Cloud Email Provider A             Quarter/ Price per user/month
  Tier 1: 1-5,000 licenses           Q1-3: 2% discount
                                     Q4: 2.5% discount
  Tier 2: 5,000– 10,000 licenses     Q1-3 2.7% discount
                                     Q4: 3.0%
  Tier 3: 10,000 – 50,000 licenses   Q 1-4: 3.2%
  ---------------------------------- -------------------------------

*\*These numbers are fabricated for this example only.*

A running total of the licenses purchased would be displayed so that at
any time, end users would know the price point. This would be validated
with the companies for the official count.

*Publicly Displayed Information Example:*

**As of 6/29/17 Total Licenses purchased Government-wide: 1,345,000**

Pricing Level= Tier 3, Q2 = \$3.2% discount per user/month

**Total mailboxes to migrate:** 3,000,000

The objectives and expected outcomes would include a more constructive
and mutually-beneficial ecosystem with private sector companies, better
and more transparent pricing for Government agencies, and an increased
variety of available secure solutions. This would also lead to more
consistent implementation and configurations across the Federal
enterprise. Lastly, this would incentivize agencies with smaller budgets
to adopt cloud email earlier.

***Assumptions***

This assessment relies on the following assumptions:

-   Industry and private sector companies are not only willing to come
    to the table, but to actually collaborate with the Federal
    Government in pursuing this new approach to contracting;

-   Industry must be willing to negotiate fair and reasonable tiered
    volume pricing that will be made public. Departments, agencies, and
    industry must agree on metrics and public reporting and tracking of
    agency adoption of cloud email adoption;

-   Agencies must also be active in timely reporting of their data,
    which will be displayed publicly, in order to ensure as specific
    volumes are reached, discounts are provided;

-   The Government has the ability to negotiate a Manufacturer’s
    Agreement that will be accepted by agencies; and

-   This approach is platform agnostic, any cloud-based email provider
    may be eligible to participate; agencies will still need to follow
    competition rules as required to place orders.

***Why This Works***

A common strategy for many chains is to locate near a competitor. For
example, you will almost always see a CVS near a Walgreens or a Burger
King near a McDonalds. You will see food chains across the street or
next to each other in almost any city in the United States. The thinking
is that if it works for the competitor, it will likely work for you.
Studies have shown repeatedly that as chains sprout up in adjacency,
volume also goes up. This strategy is commonly known as the Nash
Equilibrium, a solution concept of non-cooperative competition involving
two or more “players,” where each player knows the equilibrium
strategies of the others and no one has anything to gain by changing
their own strategy.

*Creating the Marketplace with Hotelling’s Law:* In simple terms,
Hotelling’s Law determines that businesses selling similar products tend
to locate as close as possible in order to maintain the maximum amount
of market share possible. Creating a public display and accountability
to the total Government spend for the different types of cloud email and
the number of mailboxes left to be migrated will create this
marketplace.

This strategy also takes into account that re-sellers would still be
able to sell these licenses under existing GSA Schedules and
Government-wide Acquisition Contracts (GWACs), or NASA SEWP contracts;
however, they would be required to use the current price point, record
the sale into the dashboard, and make their re-seller fees transparent
to Government as the differentiation in competition. Ultimately, this
will save business development and contract negotiation time and effort
between the email providers and the re-sellers, which will drive down
the overhead fees the Government has to pay.

Services, configurations, and prices all negotiated openly and reported
publicly will not only ensure the most competitive rates for Government,
but also create an optimal strategy for the vendors themselves. This
dis-incentivizes vendors from focusing on the highest possible price
point for their services and, instead, refocuses the competition on
performance and quality of the offerings as a distinguishing factor.

Pilot to Test the Hypothesis

The steps outlined below would be used to test the theory that this
would change the way we buy these services and establish a shared
service approach to license purchasing. This is not the full
implementation plan which will provide more details for how and when
these general steps will be accomplished. The implementation plan will
address pilot success criteria to include input and feedback from
agencies and industry which may change the course of the outcome.

**Get Industry Buy-in and Feedback.** Capitalizing on the recent success
of the IT CEO Summit, the Office of American Innovation will call a
follow-up summit with interested cloud providers to discuss the
proposal. The goal would be to determine whether CSPs would be willing
to participate in a pilot with the Federal Government.

**Measure the Market.** A prerequisite to all other actions is to obtain
an accurate measurement of the market need in terms of agencies that
have not yet transitioned to cloud email solutions. While we have clear
data on implementation among the CFO Act agencies, currently there is no
definitive data source of small and independent agencies adoption of
cloud email. In order to negotiate effectively, knowing the size of the
market is imperative, therefore we need a data call to all agencies
regarding their current email contracts, prices, and number of
mailboxes, etc.

**Establish Focused Pilots with Partners.** ATC and OMB will work with a
small group of agencies to establish a pilot program to examine the
impact of the process changes being proposed. Additionally, they will
lead the creation of a series of support groups that would deploy to
agencies to provide technical, acquisition, and migration assistance and
report to ATC on the progress of the pilots. This will include a
strategy to minimize the burden on early adopters, potentially through
price redetermination terms, modular contracting methods, or
collaborative purchase agreements.

**Create a Reporting Mechanism with Agencies and Industry.** The Federal
Government requires that accurate and up-to-date data around the current
state of both cloud and on-premises email adoption be reported by
agencies so as to develop a baseline against which agency progress may
be tracked. Industry sign-off on transparent reporting of units and
volume pricing is essential to the success of this proposal. Without it,
this strategy will ultimately fail. This is the foundation for achieving
Nash Equilibrium for both the Federal Government and industry.

Notional Metrics of Success

-   At least one cloud-based email service provider has signed up to
    negotiate a memorandum of understanding within 90 days of the report
    being published, which would allow the Government to begin capturing
    FY 2018 spending on cloud email migrations;

-   At least two agencies have signed on to pilot the proposed dashboard
    and provide reporting and acquisition of cloud email licenses under
    this effort; and

-   Within 30 days of qualified purchases, agencies or re-sellers will
    record the sale in the dashboard.

**Appendix E: Legal Considerations**

**Introduction**

Executive Order 13800, *Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal
Networks and Critical Infrastructure* requires this report to “describe
the legal . . . considerations . . . relevant to . . .” transitioning
agencies to consolidated network infrastructures or shared services.
Exec. Order No. 13,800, 82 FR 22391, § 1(c)(vi)(B)(2) (May 11, 2017).
This appendix, along with the report itself, does so. The report
suggests increased use of consolidated network architectures and shared
services. Generally, Federal law contemplates that agencies control
their own systems and information either directly or through contract.
Moving to consolidated network architectures, commercial cloud and
shared services generally involves moving away from agency control and
thus tends to increase tension with relevant law and requires greater
analysis and legal documentation. While additional legal review and
documentation would need to be performed during any eventual development
of the consolidated network architectures, commercial cloud, and shared
services based on their exact facts, implementation of the report’s
recommendations can likely be achieved within existing law in most
instances, as long as they are designed with a view toward satisfying
applicable legal requirements. A summary of some of the main areas of
law and legal issues implicated by this report are discussed below.

**The Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA)**

The Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA) and
later amendments are codified in subsection II of chapter 35 of title 44
of the U.S. Code. These provisions, which we will refer to here as
FISMA, create a whole-of-Government approach to Federal information
security[^32] pursuant to which OMB oversees agency information security
policies and practices; DHS administers implementation of these policies
and practices for Federal, civilian, executive-branch agencies,
including by assisting agencies and providing certain Government-wide
protections; and agencies are responsible for providing information
security protections commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the
potential harm to their agency information and information systems.
*See* 44 U.S.C. §§ 3551-3558. FISMA also requires agencies to implement
a minimum set of information security controls and techniques, assess
the effectiveness of these controls, comply with NIST standards, DHS
directives, and OMB policies, and report certain cybersecurity
information to DHS, OMB and to Congress. The consolidated network
architectures, commercial cloud, and shared services recommended in this
report will need to provide levels of security and transparency that
enable agency heads to ensure compliance with FISMA and its related
requirements, while also providing technical solutions that fit the
needs of multiple agencies.

**The Homeland Security Act’s Federal Intrusion Detection and Prevention
System**

The Homeland Security Act, as amended, requires DHS to “deploy, operate,
and maintain” and “make available for use by any agency” capabilities to
detect cybersecurity risks in agency network traffic and take actions to
mitigate those risks. 6 U.S.C. § 151(b)(1). DHS currently provides these
capabilities through its EINSTEIN program and, as required by law,
ensures all retention, use, and disclosure of information obtained
through EINSTEIN occurs only for the purpose of protecting information
and information systems from cybersecurity risks. *See id*. § 151(c)(3).
Federal law also requires agencies to apply these capabilities to “all
information traveling between an agency information system and any
information system other than an agency information system.” *Id.*
§ 151, note. Because this statutory mandate defines “agency information
system” as any “system owned or operated by an agency,” the statutory
mandate itself does not always require agencies to apply those
capabilities to systems operated by contractors. But existing policy
requires broader application of EINSTEIN, and DHS and agencies can
choose to apply the capabilities to contractor-operated systems.

**Privacy Statutes**

There are many provisions of law and regulation that that protect
personally identifiable information by, for example, limiting access.
*See, e.g.*, U.S. Const. amend IV; Fed. R. Crim. Pro. 6(e)(2)(B) (grand
jury confidentiality rule); 5 U.S.C. § 552a (Privacy Act of 1974); 26
U.S.C. § 6103 (restrictions on access to tax return information); 13
U.S.C. § 9(a) (Census confidentiality statute); 18 U.S.C. § 2511
(Wiretap Act); 6 U.S.C. § 151 (DHS’s Federal Intrusion Detection and
Prevention System). Personnel operating consolidated network
architectures, commercial cloud, and shared services described in this
report will sometimes require access to such information. Technical
capabilities and administrative processes will need to be developed to
enable compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to each type
of information. This will require a significant role for SAOPs and
agency privacy programs.

**Request for Information from Third Parties**

Agencies receive requests for information in their possession through
various means, including, for example, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
requests, Privacy Act requests, congressional requests, Government
Accountability Office audits, Inspector General inquiries, court
proceedings, requests from the White House or other agencies, and other
legal process. Legal agreements between shared service providers and
client agencies will be required to define who will be responsible for
responding to such requests when the information resides in a shared
service in a way that satisfies legal requirements and provides agencies
with sufficient control over their own information. Likewise, agency
notices and regulations should adequately inform the public and others
who might make requests of the appropriate procedures for accessing
information.

**The Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act (FITARA)**

The Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act (FITARA)
increases the authority of agency Chief Information Officers to play a
significant role in the planning, programming, budgeting, management,
governance and oversight of Federal information technology. 40 U.S.C. §
11319(b)(1)(A). FITARA is consistent with a move toward consolidated
network architectures, commercial cloud, and shared services and
enhances the legal authority for agency CIOs move in that direction.
Among other actions, FITARA and associated policy require agencies to
implement data center consolidation strategies that support (i) movement
of information technology infrastructure to the as-a-service model and
(ii) transition to the cloud. *See* 44 U.S.C. § 3601, note.

**Procurement and Fiscal Considerations**

Transitioning to consolidated network architectures and shared services
requires consideration of how those products or services will be
acquired and funded. In order to consolidate and share services with
each other, Federal agencies will need to enter into Interagency
Agreements or other appropriate agreements with each other that outline
the parameters of their relationship and the applicable authorities that
govern, for example, the acquisition of the products or services, how
they will be shared and utilized by the parties, and how they will be
funded and reimbursed. The specific authorities may vary depending on
the circumstances and agencies affected, but may include:

-   The Economy Act, 31 U.S.C. § 1535, which authorizes Federal agencies
    to enter into agreements to obtain supplies or services from
    another Federal agency and requires full reimbursement.

-   Agency-specific authorities. For example, 40 U.S.C. § 501 authorized
    GSA to procure and supply property and services for executive
    agencies. The funding source utilized in conjunction with 40
    U.S.C. § 501 will depend on which office within GSA is providing
    the property and services, but may include the Acquisition
    Services Fund (40 U.S.C. § 321), a Working Capital Fund, or other
    specific authorities. In general, full reimbursement will be
    required unless specifically authorized otherwise. In an example
    of such a specific authorization, 44 U.S.C. § 3553(b)(6)(B)
    authorizes DHS to “upon request by an agency, deploy\[\],
    operate\[\], and maintain\[\] technology to assist the agency to
    continuously diagnose and mitigate against cyber threats and
    vulnerabilities, with or without reimbursement.”

**Appendix F: Summary of Recommendations**

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| **\#**      | **Responsib | **Action    | **Submitted | **Timeline\ |
|             | le          | Required**  | to**        | (Following  |
|             | Party/ies** |             |             | issuance of |
|             |             |             |             | the         |
|             |             |             |             | report)**   |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| **Network   |
| Modernizati |
| on          |
| &           |
| Consolidati |
| on\         |
| **Prioritiz |
| e           |
| the         |
| Modernizati |
| on          |
| of          |
| High-Risk   |
| High Value  |
| Assets      |
| (HVAs)      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | Department  | Provide a   | OMB         | 30 days     |
|             | of Commerce | plan for    |             |             |
|             | (NIST)      | revising    |             |             |
|             |             | Federal     |             |             |
|             |             | Information |             |             |
|             |             | Processing  |             |             |
|             |             | Standard    |             |             |
|             |             | (FIPS) 199  |             |             |
|             |             | and FIPS    |             |             |
|             |             | Publication |             |             |
|             |             | 200. The    |             |             |
|             |             | plan must   |             |             |
|             |             | include:    |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Propose |             |             |
|             |             | d           |             |             |
|             |             |     update  |             |             |
|             |             |     to any  |             |             |
|             |             |     other   |             |             |
|             |             |     relevan |             |             |
|             |             | t           |             |             |
|             |             |     NIST    |             |             |
|             |             |     Special |             |             |
|             |             |     Publica |             |             |
|             |             | tions       |             |             |
|             |             |     to      |             |             |
|             |             |     support |             |             |
|             |             |     the     |             |             |
|             |             |     transit |             |             |
|             |             | ion         |             |             |
|             |             |     of      |             |             |
|             |             |     agency  |             |             |
|             |             |     complia |             |             |
|             |             | nce         |             |             |
|             |             |     efforts |             |             |
|             |             |     away    |             |             |
|             |             |     from    |             |             |
|             |             |     low-imp |             |             |
|             |             | act         |             |             |
|             |             |     systems |             |             |
|             |             |     and     |             |             |
|             |             |     toward  |             |             |
|             |             |     high-im |             |             |
|             |             | pact        |             |             |
|             |             |     systems |             |             |
|             |             | ;           |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | The updates |             |             |
|             |             | should      |             |             |
|             |             | include the |             |             |
|             |             | use of the  |             |             |
|             |             | Cybersecuri |             |             |
|             |             | ty          |             |             |
|             |             | Framework,  |             |             |
|             |             | and, where  |             |             |
|             |             | appropriate |             |             |
|             |             | ,           |             |             |
|             |             | incorporate |             |             |
|             |             | lessons     |             |             |
|             |             | from other  |             |             |
|             |             | control and |             |             |
|             |             | compliance  |             |             |
|             |             | frameworks. |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | The updates |             |             |
|             |             | should      |             |             |
|             |             | review      |             |             |
|             |             | security    |             |             |
|             |             | requirement |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | for other   |             |             |
|             |             | frameworks  |             |             |
|             |             | and system  |             |             |
|             |             | approval    |             |             |
|             |             | processes,  |             |             |
|             |             | and assess  |             |             |
|             |             | the use of  |             |             |
|             |             | overlays of |             |             |
|             |             | these       |             |             |
|             |             | frameworks  |             |             |
|             |             | into the    |             |             |
|             |             | proposed    |             |             |
|             |             | updates of  |             |             |
|             |             | the         |             |             |
|             |             | relevant    |             |             |
|             |             | Special     |             |             |
|             |             | Publication |             |             |
|             |             | s.          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | DHS and     | DHS -       | OMB         | 60 days     |
|             | NIST        | Provide a   |             |             |
|             |             | report      |             |             |
|             |             | which       |             |             |
|             |             | identifies  |             |             |
|             |             | common      |             |             |
|             |             | areas of    |             |             |
|             |             | weakness in |             |             |
|             |             | Government  |             |             |
|             |             | HVAs.       |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | NIST –      |             |             |
|             |             | Provide a   |             |             |
|             |             | plan to     |             |             |
|             |             | improve     |             |             |
|             |             | cryptograph |             |             |
|             |             | ic          |             |             |
|             |             | agility in  |             |             |
|             |             | the Federal |             |             |
|             |             | enterprise. |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | OMB (in     | Update the  | Government- | 90 days     |
|             | coordinatio | Federal     | wide        |             |
|             | n           | Information | release     |             |
|             | with DHS)   | Security    |             |             |
|             |             | Modernizati |             |             |
|             |             | on          |             |             |
|             |             | Act of 2014 |             |             |
|             |             | (FISMA)     |             |             |
|             |             | metrics as  |             |             |
|             |             | well as the |             |             |
|             |             | Cybersecuri |             |             |
|             |             | ty          |             |             |
|             |             | Cross-Agenc |             |             |
|             |             | y           |             |             |
|             |             | Priority    |             |             |
|             |             | (CAP) Goal  |             |             |
|             |             | metrics to  |             |             |
|             |             | focus on    |             |             |
|             |             | those       |             |             |
|             |             | critical    |             |             |
|             |             | capabilitie |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | most        |             |             |
|             |             | lacking in  |             |             |
|             |             | agencies.   |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | Focus       |             |             |
|             |             | review and  |             |             |
|             |             | oversight   |             |             |
|             |             | efforts on  |             |             |
|             |             | driving     |             |             |
|             |             | progress on |             |             |
|             |             | these       |             |             |
|             |             | capabilitie |             |             |
|             |             | s,          |             |             |
|             |             | specificall |             |             |
|             |             | y           |             |             |
|             |             | focused on  |             |             |
|             |             | HVAs.       |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           | DHS         | Work with   | Government- | 90 days     |
|             |             | agencies,   | wide        |             |
|             |             | including   | release     |             |
|             |             | by issuing  |             |             |
|             |             | direction   |             |             |
|             |             | when        |             |             |
|             |             | appropriate |             |             |
|             |             | ,           |             |             |
|             |             | to support  |             |             |
|             |             | mitigation  |             |             |
|             |             | actions to  |             |             |
|             |             | address     |             |             |
|             |             | common      |             |             |
|             |             | areas of    |             |             |
|             |             | risk        |             |             |
|             |             | identified  |             |             |
|             |             | in the      |             |             |
|             |             | Report to   |             |             |
|             |             | the         |             |             |
|             |             | President   |             |             |
|             |             | on Risk     |             |             |
|             |             | Management  |             |             |
|             |             | in          |             |             |
|             |             | accordance  |             |             |
|             |             | with their  |             |             |
|             |             | authorities |             |             |
|             |             | .           |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 5           | OMB (in     | Develop a   | \[For       | 120 days    |
|             | coordinatio | strategy    | internal    |             |
|             | n           | for an      | action\]    |             |
|             | with DHS)   | approach to |             |             |
|             |             | improve     |             |             |
|             |             | lines of    |             |             |
|             |             | authority   |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | operating   |             |             |
|             |             | procedures  |             |             |
|             |             | across      |             |             |
|             |             | agencies to |             |             |
|             |             | reduce      |             |             |
|             |             | enterprise  |             |             |
|             |             | risk and    |             |             |
|             |             | coordinate  |             |             |
|             |             | responses   |             |             |
|             |             | to          |             |             |
|             |             | cybersecuri |             |             |
|             |             | ty          |             |             |
|             |             | incidents.  |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 6           | Agency      | -   Review  | DHS and OMB | 150 days    |
|             | CIOs,       |     their |             |             |
|             | CISOs, and  |     lates |             |             |
|             | SAOPs       | t           |             |             |
|             |             |     submi |             |             |
|             |             | ssion       |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     HVAs  |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     make  |             |             |
|             |             |     any   |             |             |
|             |             |     neces |             |             |
|             |             | sary        |             |             |
|             |             |     chang |             |             |
|             |             | es          |             |             |
|             |             |     to    |             |             |
|             |             |     refle |             |             |
|             |             | ct          |             |             |
|             |             |     the   |             |             |
|             |             |     lates |             |             |
|             |             | t           |             |             |
|             |             |     infor |             |             |
|             |             | mation      |             |             |
|             |             |     on    |             |             |
|             |             |     syste |             |             |
|             |             | m           |             |             |
|             |             |     prior |             |             |
|             |             | itization   |             |             |
|             |             |     in    |             |             |
|             |             |     tande |             |             |
|             |             | m           |             |             |
|             |             |     with  |             |             |
|             |             |     the   |             |             |
|             |             |     asses |             |             |
|             |             | sments      |             |             |
|             |             |     made  |             |             |
|             |             |     under |             |             |
|             |             |     their |             |             |
|             |             |     risk  |             |             |
|             |             |     asses |             |             |
|             |             | sments      |             |             |
|             |             |     as    |             |             |
|             |             |     part  |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     Secti |             |             |
|             |             | on          |             |             |
|             |             |     1 of  |             |             |
|             |             |     Execu |             |             |
|             |             | tive        |             |             |
|             |             |     Order |             |             |
|             |             |  13800.     |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 7           | DHS, OMB,   | Review HVA  | President’s | 180 days    |
|             | and the NSC | lists       | Management  |             |
|             |             | submitted   | Council     |             |
|             |             | to DHS by   |             |             |
|             |             | Federal     |             |             |
|             |             | agencies    |             |             |
|             |             | and produce |             |             |
|             |             | a           |             |             |
|             |             | prioritized |             |             |
|             |             | list of     |             |             |
|             |             | systems for |             |             |
|             |             | Government- |             |             |
|             |             | wide        |             |             |
|             |             | interventio |             |             |
|             |             | n.          |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | Six HVAs    |             |             |
|             |             | will be     |             |             |
|             |             | selected to |             |             |
|             |             | receive     |             |             |
|             |             | centralized |             |             |
|             |             | interventio |             |             |
|             |             | ns          |             |             |
|             |             | in staffing |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | technical   |             |             |
|             |             | support.    |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 8           | Any agency  | Identify a  | OMB and DHS | 180 days    |
|             | that has an | remediation |             |             |
|             | HVA         | plan,       |             |             |
|             | identified  | including a |             |             |
|             | as having a | proposal    |             |             |
|             | major or    | for         |             |             |
|             | critical    | acceleratin |             |             |
|             | weakness in | g           |             |             |
|             | either a    | modernizati |             |             |
|             | risk        | on          |             |             |
|             | assessment, | within one  |             |             |
|             | RVA, SAR,   | year and    |             |             |
|             | or agency   | identificat |             |             |
|             | sponsored   | ion         |             |             |
|             | review      | of          |             |             |
|             |             | impediments |             |             |
|             |             | in policy,  |             |             |
|             |             | budget,     |             |             |
|             |             | workforce,  |             |             |
|             |             | or          |             |             |
|             |             | operations. |             |             |
|             |             | The plan    |             |             |
|             |             | should:     |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Maximiz |             |             |
|             |             | e           |             |             |
|             |             |     use   |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     share |             |             |
|             |             | d           |             |             |
|             |             |     IT    |             |             |
|             |             |     servi |             |             |
|             |             | ces         |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     consi |             |             |
|             |             | der         |             |             |
|             |             |     appli |             |             |
|             |             | cation      |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     data- |             |             |
|             |             | level       |             |             |
|             |             |     prote |             |             |
|             |             | ctions      |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     the   |             |             |
|             |             |     use   |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     comme |             |             |
|             |             | rcial       |             |             |
|             |             |     cloud |             |             |
|             |             | -based      |             |             |
|             |             |     archi |             |             |
|             |             | tectures;   |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | Prioritize  |             |             |
|             |             | existing    |             |             |
|             |             | financial   |             |             |
|             |             | and human   |             |             |
|             |             | resources   |             |             |
|             |             | and should  |             |             |
|             |             | identify    |             |             |
|             |             | other       |             |             |
|             |             | systems of  |             |             |
|             |             | concern     |             |             |
|             |             | that may    |             |             |
|             |             | suffer from |             |             |
|             |             | similar     |             |             |
|             |             | issues not  |             |             |
|             |             | categorized |             |             |
|             |             | as HVAs.    |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 9           | Any agency  | Identify a  | OMB and DHS | 180 days    |
|             | that has an | remediation |             |             |
|             | HVA         | plan,       |             |             |
|             | identified  | including a |             |             |
|             | as having a | proposal    |             |             |
|             | major or    | for         |             |             |
|             | critical    | acceleratin |             |             |
|             | weakness in | g           |             |             |
|             | either a    | modernizati |             |             |
|             | risk        | on          |             |             |
|             | assessment, | within one  |             |             |
|             | RVA, SAR,   | year and    |             |             |
|             | or agency   | identificat |             |             |
|             | sponsored   | ion         |             |             |
|             | review      | of          |             |             |
|             |             | impediments |             |             |
|             |             | in policy,  |             |             |
|             |             | budget,     |             |             |
|             |             | workforce,  |             |             |
|             |             | or          |             |             |
|             |             | operations. |             |             |
|             |             | The plan    |             |             |
|             |             | should:     |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Maximiz |             |             |
|             |             | e           |             |             |
|             |             |     use   |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     share |             |             |
|             |             | d           |             |             |
|             |             |     IT    |             |             |
|             |             |     servi |             |             |
|             |             | ces         |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     consi |             |             |
|             |             | der         |             |             |
|             |             |     appli |             |             |
|             |             | cation      |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     data- |             |             |
|             |             | level       |             |             |
|             |             |     prote |             |             |
|             |             | ctions      |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     the   |             |             |
|             |             |     use   |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     comme |             |             |
|             |             | rcial       |             |             |
|             |             |     cloud |             |             |
|             |             | -based      |             |             |
|             |             |     archi |             |             |
|             |             | tectures;   |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Priorit |             |             |
|             |             | ize         |             |             |
|             |             |     exist |             |             |
|             |             | ing         |             |             |
|             |             |     finan |             |             |
|             |             | cial        |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     human |             |             |
|             |             |     resou |             |             |
|             |             | rces        |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     shoul |             |             |
|             |             | d           |             |             |
|             |             |     ident |             |             |
|             |             | ify         |             |             |
|             |             |     other |             |             |
|             |             |     syste |             |             |
|             |             | ms          |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     conce |             |             |
|             |             | rn          |             |             |
|             |             |     that  |             |             |
|             |             |     may   |             |             |
|             |             |     suffe |             |             |
|             |             | r           |             |             |
|             |             |     from  |             |             |
|             |             |     simil |             |             |
|             |             | ar          |             |             |
|             |             |     issue |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             |     not   |             |             |
|             |             |     categ |             |             |
|             |             | orized      |             |             |
|             |             |     as    |             |             |
|             |             |     HVAs. |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 10          | DHS (in     | Provide     | \[For       | 180 days    |
|             | coordinatio | hands-on    | internal    |             |
|             | n           | technical   | action\]    |             |
|             | with OMB,   | assistance  |             |             |
|             | USDS, and   | to agencies |             |             |
|             | GSA)        | in          |             |             |
|             |             | bolstering  |             |             |
|             |             | protections |             |             |
|             |             | for systems |             |             |
|             |             | identified  |             |             |
|             |             | through the |             |             |
|             |             | process     |             |             |
|             |             | outlined    |             |             |
|             |             | above as    |             |             |
|             |             | having the  |             |             |
|             |             | greatest    |             |             |
|             |             | need for    |             |             |
|             |             | modernizati |             |             |
|             |             | on.         |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 11          | DHS         | Expand the  | \[For       | 180 days    |
|             |             | availabilit | internal    |             |
|             |             | y           | action\]    |             |
|             |             | of DHS RVAs |             |             |
|             |             | and SARS    |             |             |
|             |             | for agency  |             |             |
|             |             | HVAs and    |             |             |
|             |             | work with   |             |             |
|             |             | OMB to      |             |             |
|             |             | refocus     |             |             |
|             |             | these       |             |             |
|             |             | engagements |             |             |
|             |             | to          |             |             |
|             |             | concentrate |             |             |
|             |             | on hands-on |             |             |
|             |             | technical   |             |             |
|             |             | engineering |             |             |
|             |             | interventio |             |             |
|             |             | ns.         |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | Work with   |             |             |
|             |             | GSA to      |             |             |
|             |             | expand the  |             |             |
|             |             | visibility, |             |             |
|             |             | offerings,  |             |             |
|             |             | and agency  |             |             |
|             |             | use of the  |             |             |
|             |             | Highly      |             |             |
|             |             | Adaptive    |             |             |
|             |             | Cybersecuri |             |             |
|             |             | ty          |             |             |
|             |             | Services    |             |             |
|             |             | Special     |             |             |
|             |             | Item        |             |             |
|             |             | Numbers on  |             |             |
|             |             | IT Schedule |             |             |
|             |             | 70.         |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 12          | OMB (in     | Capture     | Government- | 365 days    |
|             | coordinatio | standard    | wide        |             |
|             | n           | operating   | release     |             |
|             | with DHS,   | procedures  |             |             |
|             | GSA,        | for the     |             |             |
|             | Federal     | protection  |             |             |
|             | agencies,   | of HVAs.    |             |             |
|             | other       |             |             |             |
|             | stakeholder | Develop a   |             |             |
|             | s)          | playbook    |             |             |
|             |             | that        |             |             |
|             |             | agencies    |             |             |
|             |             | can         |             |             |
|             |             | leverage to |             |             |
|             |             | expand this |             |             |
|             |             | approach to |             |             |
|             |             | other       |             |             |
|             |             | systems in  |             |             |
|             |             | a           |             |             |
|             |             | prioritized |             |             |
|             |             | ,           |             |             |
|             |             | risk-based  |             |             |
|             |             | fashion.    |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| **Network   |
| Modernizati |
| on          |
| &           |
| Consolidati |
| on**        |
|             |
| Modernize   |
| the Trusted |
| Internet    |
| Connections |
| (TIC) and   |
| National    |
| Cybersecuri |
| ty          |
| Protection  |
| System      |
| (NCPS) to   |
| Improve     |
| Protections |
| ,           |
| Remove      |
| Barriers,   |
| and Enable  |
| Commercial  |
| Cloud       |
| Migration   |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 13          | OMB         | Submit a    | Government- | 30 days     |
|             |             | data call   | wide        |             |
|             |             | to agencies | release     |             |
|             |             | requesting  |             |             |
|             |             | submission  |             |             |
|             |             | of both     |             |             |
|             |             | in-progress |             |             |
|             |             | and pending |             |             |
|             |             | projects    |             |             |
|             |             | for cloud   |             |             |
|             |             | migration.  |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 14          | Agencies    | Respond to  | OMB         | Commensurat |
|             |             | OMB data    |             | e           |
|             |             | call.       |             | with        |
|             |             |             |             | timelines   |
|             |             | Propose a   |             | in the data |
|             |             | cloud       |             | call        |
|             |             | migration   |             | request     |
|             |             | plan that   |             |             |
|             |             | highlights  |             |             |
|             |             | needed      |             |             |
|             |             | changes to  |             |             |
|             |             | requisite   |             |             |
|             |             | policies    |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | capabilitie |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | to          |             |             |
|             |             | facilitate  |             |             |
|             |             | faster      |             |             |
|             |             | migration.  |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 15          | GSA, DHS,   | Review      | \[For       | 60 days     |
|             | OMB, NSC,   | agency data | internal    |             |
|             | USDS, and   | call        | action\]    |             |
|             |             | responses.  |             |             |
|             | other       |             |             |             |
|             | relevant    |             |             |             |
|             | parties     |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16          | OMB         | Provide     | Government- | 60 days     |
|             |             | preliminary | wide        |             |
|             |             | update to   | release     |             |
|             |             | TIC policy  |             |             |
|             |             | that        |             |             |
|             |             | introduces  |             |             |
|             |             | 90-day      |             |             |
|             |             | sprint      |             |             |
|             |             | during      |             |             |
|             |             | which       |             |             |
|             |             | projects    |             |             |
|             |             | approved by |             |             |
|             |             | OMB will    |             |             |
|             |             | pilot       |             |             |
|             |             | proposed    |             |             |
|             |             | changes in  |             |             |
|             |             | TIC         |             |             |
|             |             | requirement |             |             |
|             |             | s.          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 17          | Agencies    | Require     | OMB, DHS,   | 90 days     |
|             |             | collection  | GSA, NSC    |             |
|             |             | of metrics  |             |             |
|             |             | that will   |             |             |
|             |             | be used to  |             |             |
|             |             | ensure that |             |             |
|             |             | any         |             |             |
|             |             | proposed    |             |             |
|             |             | policy      |             |             |
|             |             | change does |             |             |
|             |             | not         |             |             |
|             |             | introduce   |             |             |
|             |             | an          |             |             |
|             |             | unacceptabl |             |             |
|             |             | e           |             |             |
|             |             | level of    |             |             |
|             |             | cybersecuri |             |             |
|             |             | ty          |             |             |
|             |             | risk.       |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 18          | GSA, DHS,   | Kick off a  | \[For       | 90 days     |
|             | OMB, USDS,  | 90-day      | internal    |             |
|             | NSC         | sprint to   | action\]    |             |
|             |             | validate    |             |             |
|             |             | particular  |             |             |
|             |             | case        |             |             |
|             |             | studies for |             |             |
|             |             | Category 2  |             |             |
|             |             | cloud       |             |             |
|             |             | migration   |             |             |
|             |             | projects.   |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 19          | GSA, DHS,   | For         | \[For       | 90 days     |
|             | and OMB     | category 3  | internal    |             |
|             |             | cloud       | action\]    |             |
|             |             | migration   |             |             |
|             |             | projects,   |             |             |
|             |             | work with   |             |             |
|             |             | agencies to |             |             |
|             |             | evaluate    |             |             |
|             |             | whether     |             |             |
|             |             | there are   |             |             |
|             |             | common      |             |             |
|             |             | features or |             |             |
|             |             | capabilitie |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | that could  |             |             |
|             |             | be provided |             |             |
|             |             | efficiently |             |             |
|             |             | ,           |             |             |
|             |             | effectively |             |             |
|             |             | ,           |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | securely by |             |             |
|             |             | CSPs. This  |             |             |
|             |             | analysis    |             |             |
|             |             | will serve  |             |             |
|             |             | as an input |             |             |
|             |             | to the      |             |             |
|             |             | FedRAMP     |             |             |
|             |             | JAB’s       |             |             |
|             |             | prioritizat |             |             |
|             |             | ion         |             |             |
|             |             | of          |             |             |
|             |             | high-baseli |             |             |
|             |             | ne          |             |             |
|             |             | CSP         |             |             |
|             |             | offerings   |             |             |
|             |             | available   |             |             |
|             |             | to agencies |             |             |
|             |             | wanting to  |             |             |
|             |             | migrate     |             |             |
|             |             | high-impact |             |             |
|             |             | data to the |             |             |
|             |             | cloud.      |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 20          | OMB, GSA,   | Using       | Government- | 180 days    |
|             | and DHS     | information | wide        |             |
|             |             | gathered    | release     |             |
|             |             | from        |             |             |
|             |             | previous    |             |             |
|             |             | actions,    |             |             |
|             |             | proceed     |             |             |
|             |             | with rapid  |             |             |
|             |             | updates to  |             |             |
|             |             | TIC policy, |             |             |
|             |             | reference   |             |             |
|             |             | architectur |             |             |
|             |             | es,         |             |             |
|             |             | and NCPS    |             |             |
|             |             | operational |             |             |
|             |             | models to   |             |             |
|             |             | facilitate  |             |             |
|             |             | outcomes in |             |             |
|             |             | commercial  |             |             |
|             |             | cloud.      |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| **Network   |
| Modernizati |
| on          |
| &           |
| Consolidati |
| on**        |
|             |
| Consolidate |
| Network     |
| Acquisition |
| s           |
| and         |
| Management  |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 21          | DHS         | Provide GSA | GSA         | 60 days     |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | agencies    |             |             |
|             |             | with        |             |             |
|             |             | baseline    |             |             |
|             |             | configurati |             |             |
|             |             | on          |             |             |
|             |             | guidance    |             |             |
|             |             | for Managed |             |             |
|             |             | Security    |             |             |
|             |             | Services    |             |             |
|             |             | capabilitie |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | offered     |             |             |
|             |             | under EIS.  |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22          | GSA, in     | Develop a   | Government- | 90 days     |
|             | coordinatio | comprehensi | wide        |             |
|             | n           | ve          | release     |             |
|             | with DHS    | acquisition |             |             |
|             |             | strategy    |             |             |
|             |             | that        |             |             |
|             |             | provides a  |             |             |
|             |             | feasibility |             |             |
|             |             | assessment  |             |             |
|             |             | and roadmap |             |             |
|             |             | to          |             |             |
|             |             | accomplish  |             |             |
|             |             | the         |             |             |
|             |             | following:  |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Provide |             |             |
|             |             |     a     |             |             |
|             |             |     path  |             |             |
|             |             |     for   |             |             |
|             |             |     all   |             |             |
|             |             |     small |             |             |
|             |             |     agenc |             |             |
|             |             | ies         |             |             |
|             |             |     to    |             |             |
|             |             |     more  |             |             |
|             |             |     easil |             |             |
|             |             | y           |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     cost- |             |             |
|             |             | effectively |             |             |
|             |             |     utili |             |             |
|             |             | ze          |             |             |
|             |             |     EIS   |             |             |
|             |             |     servi |             |             |
|             |             | ces;        |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Review  |             |             |
|             |             |     curre |             |             |
|             |             | nt          |             |             |
|             |             |     secur |             |             |
|             |             | ity         |             |             |
|             |             |     capab |             |             |
|             |             | ilities     |             |             |
|             |             |     curre |             |             |
|             |             | ntly        |             |             |
|             |             |     offer |             |             |
|             |             | ed          |             |             |
|             |             |     under |             |             |
|             |             |     MTIPS |             |             |
|             |             |     to    |             |             |
|             |             |     ensur |             |             |
|             |             | e           |             |             |
|             |             |     the   |             |             |
|             |             |     capab |             |             |
|             |             | ilities     |             |             |
|             |             |     provi |             |             |
|             |             | de          |             |             |
|             |             |     adequ |             |             |
|             |             | ate         |             |             |
|             |             |     secur |             |             |
|             |             | ity         |             |             |
|             |             |     withi |             |             |
|             |             | n           |             |             |
|             |             |     the   |             |             |
|             |             |     curre |             |             |
|             |             | nt          |             |             |
|             |             |     threa |             |             |
|             |             | t           |             |             |
|             |             |     envir |             |             |
|             |             | onment;     |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Identif |             |             |
|             |             | y           |             |             |
|             |             |     addit |             |             |
|             |             | ional       |             |             |
|             |             |     areas |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     oppor |             |             |
|             |             | tunity      |             |             |
|             |             |     outsi |             |             |
|             |             | de          |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     EIS   |             |             |
|             |             |     to    |             |             |
|             |             |     conso |             |             |
|             |             | lidate      |             |             |
|             |             |     acqui |             |             |
|             |             | sition      |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     cyber |             |             |
|             |             | security    |             |             |
|             |             |     servi |             |             |
|             |             | ces         |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |     produ |             |             |
|             |             | cts;        |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Determi |             |             |
|             |             | ne          |             |             |
|             |             |     the   |             |             |
|             |             |     feasi |             |             |
|             |             | bility      |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     estab |             |             |
|             |             | lishing     |             |             |
|             |             |     a     |             |             |
|             |             |     centr |             |             |
|             |             | alized      |             |             |
|             |             |     acqui |             |             |
|             |             | sition      |             |             |
|             |             |     suppo |             |             |
|             |             | rt          |             |             |
|             |             |     funct |             |             |
|             |             | ion         |             |             |
|             |             |     withi |             |             |
|             |             | n           |             |             |
|             |             |     GSA   |             |             |
|             |             |     capab |             |             |
|             |             | le          |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     perfo |             |             |
|             |             | rming       |             |             |
|             |             |     cyber |             |             |
|             |             | security-re |             |             |
|             |             | lated       |             |             |
|             |             |     contr |             |             |
|             |             | act         |             |             |
|             |             |     manag |             |             |
|             |             | ement       |             |             |
|             |             |     activ |             |             |
|             |             | ities       |             |             |
|             |             |     for   |             |             |
|             |             |     small |             |             |
|             |             |     agenc |             |             |
|             |             | ies.        |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 23          | GSA         | Support     | \[For       | None given  |
|             |             | small       | internal    |             |
|             |             | agencies in | action\]    |             |
|             |             | the         |             |             |
|             |             | transition  |             |             |
|             |             | to EIS by   |             |             |
|             |             | consolidati |             |             |
|             |             | ng          |             |             |
|             |             | requirement |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | for small   |             |             |
|             |             | agencies.   |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 24          | GSA         | Provide     | Small &     | None given  |
|             |             | guidance to | independent |             |
|             |             | small       | agencies    |             |
|             |             | agencies on |             |             |
|             |             | how best to |             |             |
|             |             | leverage    |             |             |
|             |             | its         |             |             |
|             |             | cross-agenc |             |             |
|             |             | y           |             |             |
|             |             | acquisition |             |             |
|             |             | in order to |             |             |
|             |             | optimize    |             |             |
|             |             | small       |             |             |
|             |             | agencies’   |             |             |
|             |             | investments |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | management  |             |             |
|             |             | throughout  |             |             |
|             |             | the         |             |             |
|             |             | procurement |             |             |
|             |             | process.    |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| **Shared    |
| Services to |
| Enable      |
| Future      |
| Network     |
| Architectur |
| es**        |
|             |
| Enable the  |
| Use of      |
| Commercial  |
| Cloud       |
| Services    |
| and         |
| Infrastruct |
| ure         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 25          | OMB         | Issue data  | Government- | 30 days     |
|             |             | call that   | wide        |             |
|             |             | will have   | release     |             |
|             |             | agencies    |             |             |
|             |             | identify    |             |             |
|             |             | systems     |             |             |
|             |             | that may be |             |             |
|             |             | ready for   |             |             |
|             |             | cloud       |             |             |
|             |             | migration   |             |             |
|             |             | and can be  |             |             |
|             |             | migrated    |             |             |
|             |             | securely    |             |             |
|             |             | but have    |             |             |
|             |             | not yet     |             |             |
|             |             | migrated    |             |             |
|             |             | due to      |             |             |
|             |             | perceived   |             |             |
|             |             | or          |             |             |
|             |             | encountered |             |             |
|             |             | difficultie |             |             |
|             |             | s.          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 26          | Agencies    | Respond to  | OMB         | Commensurat |
|             |             | OMB data    |             | e           |
|             |             | call.       |             | with        |
|             |             |             |             | timelines   |
|             |             |             |             | in the data |
|             |             |             |             | call        |
|             |             |             |             | request     |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 27          | OMB and GSA | Review the  | \[For       | Conclusion  |
|             |             | impediments | internal    | of data     |
|             |             | to moving   | action\]    | call        |
|             |             | to the      |             |             |
|             |             | cloud       |             |             |
|             |             | outlined by |             |             |
|             |             | agencies    |             |             |
|             |             | and will    |             |             |
|             |             | prioritize  |             |             |
|             |             | an infusion |             |             |
|             |             | of          |             |             |
|             |             | technical   |             |             |
|             |             | talent,     |             |             |
|             |             | capital,    |             |             |
|             |             | and updated |             |             |
|             |             | security    |             |             |
|             |             | policy      |             |             |
|             |             | (developed  |             |             |
|             |             | iteratively |             |             |
|             |             | to solve    |             |             |
|             |             | agency-spec |             |             |
|             |             | ific        |             |             |
|             |             | issues) as  |             |             |
|             |             | needed to   |             |             |
|             |             | enable      |             |             |
|             |             | prioritized |             |             |
|             |             | cloud       |             |             |
|             |             | migrations  |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 28          | GSA (with   | Work with   | Government- | 90 days     |
|             | OMB)        | volunteer   | wide        |             |
|             |             | agencies to | release     |             |
|             |             | pilot new   |             |             |
|             |             | initiatives |             |             |
|             |             | to improve  |             |             |
|             |             | the speed,  |             |             |
|             |             | reliability |             |             |
|             |             | ,           |             |             |
|             |             | reusability |             |             |
|             |             | ,           |             |             |
|             |             | and risk    |             |             |
|             |             | acceptance  |             |             |
|             |             | transparenc |             |             |
|             |             | y           |             |             |
|             |             | for         |             |             |
|             |             | cloud-based |             |             |
|             |             | SaaS and    |             |             |
|             |             | shared      |             |             |
|             |             | services    |             |             |
|             |             | ATOs.       |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | Based on    |             |             |
|             |             | the         |             |             |
|             |             | combined    |             |             |
|             |             | efforts,    |             |             |
|             |             | including   |             |             |
|             |             | lessons     |             |             |
|             |             | learned and |             |             |
|             |             | best        |             |             |
|             |             | practices   |             |             |
|             |             | for         |             |             |
|             |             | extending   |             |             |
|             |             | these pilot |             |             |
|             |             | activities  |             |             |
|             |             | to a        |             |             |
|             |             | Federal     |             |             |
|             |             | civilian-wi |             |             |
|             |             | de          |             |             |
|             |             | scale, GSA  |             |             |
|             |             | will work   |             |             |
|             |             | with OMB to |             |             |
|             |             | develop any |             |             |
|             |             | necessary   |             |             |
|             |             | plans or    |             |             |
|             |             | policy for  |             |             |
|             |             | promoting   |             |             |
|             |             | these       |             |             |
|             |             | initiatives |             |             |
|             |             | and any     |             |             |
|             |             | other       |             |             |
|             |             | innovative  |             |             |
|             |             | FedRAMP,    |             |             |
|             |             | shared      |             |             |
|             |             | services,   |             |             |
|             |             | or          |             |             |
|             |             | agency-spec |             |             |
|             |             | ific        |             |             |
|             |             | efforts     |             |             |
|             |             | across the  |             |             |
|             |             | Federal     |             |             |
|             |             | enterprise. |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 29          | OMB, in     | Update the  | Government- | 120 days    |
|             | coordinatio | Federal     | wide        |             |
|             | n           | Cloud       | release     |             |
|             | with DHS    | Computing   |             |             |
|             | and other   | Strategy    |             |             |
|             | Federal     | (“Cloud-Fir |             |             |
|             | partners    | st”),       |             |             |
|             |             | which will  |             |             |
|             |             | provide     |             |             |
|             |             | additional  |             |             |
|             |             | guidance to |             |             |
|             |             | agencies on |             |             |
|             |             | the most    |             |             |
|             |             | impactful   |             |             |
|             |             | use cases   |             |             |
|             |             | for cloud   |             |             |
|             |             | adoption    |             |             |
|             |             | and how     |             |             |
|             |             | best to     |             |             |
|             |             | conduct     |             |             |
|             |             | appropriate |             |             |
|             |             | operational |             |             |
|             |             | security in |             |             |
|             |             | cloud       |             |             |
|             |             | environment |             |             |
|             |             | s.          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 30          | OMB         | Conduct a   | Government- | 120 days    |
|             |             | thorough    | wide        |             |
|             |             | review of   | release     |             |
|             |             | all         |             |             |
|             |             | relevant    |             |             |
|             |             | policies    |             |             |
|             |             | pertaining  |             |             |
|             |             | to IT       |             |             |
|             |             | modernizati |             |             |
|             |             | on,         |             |             |
|             |             | cloud       |             |             |
|             |             | migration,  |             |             |
|             |             | infrastruct |             |             |
|             |             | ure         |             |             |
|             |             | consolidati |             |             |
|             |             | on,         |             |             |
|             |             | and shared  |             |             |
|             |             | services,   |             |             |
|             |             | among       |             |             |
|             |             | others, and |             |             |
|             |             | initiate    |             |             |
|             |             | revisions,  |             |             |
|             |             | rescissions |             |             |
|             |             | ,           |             |             |
|             |             | or other    |             |             |
|             |             | rapid       |             |             |
|             |             | policy      |             |             |
|             |             | updates     |             |             |
|             |             | that may    |             |             |
|             |             | improve the |             |             |
|             |             | ability of  |             |             |
|             |             | agencies to |             |             |
|             |             | modernize   |             |             |
|             |             | effectively |             |             |
|             |             | ,           |             |             |
|             |             | securely,   |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | efficiently |             |             |
|             |             | .           |             |             |
|             |             | If          |             |             |
|             |             | necessary,  |             |             |
|             |             | OMB will    |             |             |
|             |             | issue       |             |             |
|             |             | further     |             |             |
|             |             | guidance    |             |             |
|             |             | that will   |             |             |
|             |             | augment and |             |             |
|             |             | enhance     |             |             |
|             |             | existing    |             |             |
|             |             | Federal     |             |             |
|             |             | technology  |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | information |             |             |
|             |             | security    |             |             |
|             |             | policy.     |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 31          | OMB, in     | Develop     | Government- | 120 days    |
|             | coordinatio | clauses     | wide        |             |
|             | n           | that define | release     |             |
|             | with the    | consistent  |             |             |
|             | FAR         | requirement |             |             |
|             | Council,    | s           |             |             |
|             | GSA, and    | for         |             |             |
|             | DHS         | security,   |             |             |
|             |             | privacy,    |             |             |
|             |             | and access  |             |             |
|             |             | to data for |             |             |
|             |             | use in      |             |             |
|             |             | cloud       |             |             |
|             |             | contracts.  |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 32          | OMB,        | Assemble a  | Government- | 180 days    |
|             | working     | tiger team  | wide        |             |
|             | with the    | to develop  | release     |             |
|             | FAR         | a set of    |             |             |
|             | Council,    | proposed    |             |             |
|             | GSA, and    | acquisition |             |             |
|             | DHS         | statutory   |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | regulatory  |             |             |
|             |             | changes     |             |             |
|             |             | that        |             |             |
|             |             | specificall |             |             |
|             |             | y           |             |             |
|             |             | target and  |             |             |
|             |             | help to     |             |             |
|             |             | achieve the |             |             |
|             |             | modernizati |             |             |
|             |             | on          |             |             |
|             |             | goals       |             |             |
|             |             | outlined in |             |             |
|             |             | this        |             |             |
|             |             | report. The |             |             |
|             |             | tiger team  |             |             |
|             |             | will look   |             |             |
|             |             | to leverage |             |             |
|             |             | regulatory  |             |             |
|             |             | reform      |             |             |
|             |             | efforts     |             |             |
|             |             | being       |             |             |
|             |             | conducted   |             |             |
|             |             | under       |             |             |
|             |             | legislative |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | executive   |             |             |
|             |             | order       |             |             |
|             |             | direction,  |             |             |
|             |             | while at    |             |             |
|             |             | the same    |             |             |
|             |             | time (i)    |             |             |
|             |             | maximizing  |             |             |
|             |             | the use of  |             |             |
|             |             | commercial  |             |             |
|             |             | products    |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | services;   |             |             |
|             |             | (ii)        |             |             |
|             |             | Promoting   |             |             |
|             |             | competition |             |             |
|             |             | ;           |             |             |
|             |             | (iii)       |             |             |
|             |             | Minimize    |             |             |
|             |             | administrat |             |             |
|             |             | ive         |             |             |
|             |             | operating   |             |             |
|             |             | costs; (iv) |             |             |
|             |             | Conduct     |             |             |
|             |             | business    |             |             |
|             |             | with        |             |             |
|             |             | integrity,  |             |             |
|             |             | fairness,   |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | openness;   |             |             |
|             |             | and (v)     |             |             |
|             |             | Fulfill     |             |             |
|             |             | public      |             |             |
|             |             | policy      |             |             |
|             |             | objectives. |             |             |
|             |             | The tiger   |             |             |
|             |             | team’s      |             |             |
|             |             | recommendat |             |             |
|             |             | ions        |             |             |
|             |             | shall be    |             |             |
|             |             | fully       |             |             |
|             |             | coordinated |             |             |
|             |             | with the    |             |             |
|             |             | appropriate |             |             |
|             |             | stakeholder |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | before      |             |             |
|             |             | being       |             |             |
|             |             | adopted.    |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | **Shared    |
|             | Services to |
|             | Enable      |
|             | Future      |
|             | Network     |
|             | Architectur |
|             | es**        |
|             |             |
|             | Accelerate  |
|             | Adoption of |
|             | Cloud Email |
|             | and         |
|             | Collaborati |
|             | on          |
|             | Tools       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 33          | OMB         | Conduct a   | Government- | 30 days     |
|             |             | data call   | wide        |             |
|             |             | to agencies | release     |             |
|             |             | regarding   |             |             |
|             |             | their       |             |             |
|             |             | current     |             |             |
|             |             | email       |             |             |
|             |             | contracts,  |             |             |
|             |             | prices, and |             |             |
|             |             | number of   |             |             |
|             |             | mailboxes.  |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 34          | Agencies    | Respond to  | OMB         | Commensurat |
|             |             | OMB data    |             | e           |
|             |             | call.       |             | with        |
|             |             |             |             | timelines   |
|             |             |             |             | in the data |
|             |             |             |             | call        |
|             |             |             |             | request     |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 35          | OMB         | Convene a   | Government- | 30 days     |
|             |             | task force  | wide        |             |
|             |             | of agencies | release     |             |
|             |             | to finalize |             |             |
|             |             | a set of    |             |             |
|             |             | requirement |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | for both    |             |             |
|             |             | low and     |             |             |
|             |             | moderate    |             |             |
|             |             | security    |             |             |
|             |             | postures    |             |             |
|             |             | for email   |             |             |
|             |             | and cloud   |             |             |
|             |             | collaborati |             |             |
|             |             | on.         |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 36          | OMB         | Establish a | N/A         | 60 days     |
|             |             | comprehensi |             |             |
|             |             | ve          |             |             |
|             |             | strategy    |             |             |
|             |             | for driving |             |             |
|             |             | the         |             |             |
|             |             | accelerated |             |             |
|             |             | migration   |             |             |
|             |             | of agency   |             |             |
|             |             | email and   |             |             |
|             |             | collaborati |             |             |
|             |             | on          |             |             |
|             |             | tools to    |             |             |
|             |             | the cloud   |             |             |
|             |             | for         |             |             |
|             |             | departments |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | agencies    |             |             |
|             |             | who have    |             |             |
|             |             | still not   |             |             |
|             |             | adopted     |             |             |
|             |             | cloud-based |             |             |
|             |             | email.      |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 37          | OMB         | Issue       | Government- | 75 days     |
|             |             | updated     | wide        |             |
|             |             | identity    | release     |             |
|             |             | policy      |             |             |
|             |             | guidance    |             |             |
|             |             | for public  |             |             |
|             |             | comment.    |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 38          | OMB         | Assemble    | \[For       | 90 days     |
|             |             | Acquisition | internal    |             |
|             |             | Tiger Team, | action\]    |             |
|             |             | charged     |             |             |
|             |             | with        |             |             |
|             |             | drafting    |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | disseminati |             |             |
|             |             | ng          |             |             |
|             |             | a “quick    |             |             |
|             |             | start”      |             |             |
|             |             | acquisition |             |             |
|             |             | package     |             |             |
|             |             | that can    |             |             |
|             |             | help        |             |             |
|             |             | agencies    |             |             |
|             |             | facilitate  |             |             |
|             |             | rapid       |             |             |
|             |             | license and |             |             |
|             |             | migration   |             |             |
|             |             | service     |             |             |
|             |             | acquisition |             |             |
|             |             | s.          |             |             |
|             |             | The package |             |             |
|             |             | would       |             |             |
|             |             | include:    |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Market  |             |             |
|             |             |     resea |             |             |
|             |             | rch,        |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Acquisi |             |             |
|             |             | tion        |             |             |
|             |             |     plans |             |             |
|             |             | ,           |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Templat |             |             |
|             |             | es          |             |             |
|             |             |     for   |             |             |
|             |             |     reque |             |             |
|             |             | sting       |             |             |
|             |             |     quote |             |             |
|             |             | s,          |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Identif |             |             |
|             |             | ied         |             |             |
|             |             |     sourc |             |             |
|             |             | es          |             |             |
|             |             |     of    |             |             |
|             |             |     suppl |             |             |
|             |             | y,          |             |             |
|             |             |     and   |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | -   Indepen |             |             |
|             |             | dent        |             |             |
|             |             |     Gover |             |             |
|             |             | nment       |             |             |
|             |             |     Cost  |             |             |
|             |             |     Estim |             |             |
|             |             | ate         |             |             |
|             |             |     calcu |             |             |
|             |             | lation      |             |             |
|             |             |     templ |             |             |
|             |             | ates.       |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 39          | Acquisition | Send out    | Public      | 90 days     |
|             | Tiger Team  | Request for | release     |             |
|             |             | Information |             |             |
|             |             | (RFI) or    |             |             |
|             |             | conduct     |             |             |
|             |             | other       |             |             |
|             |             | market      |             |             |
|             |             | research    |             |             |
|             |             | activities  |             |             |
|             |             | to find     |             |             |
|             |             | qualified   |             |             |
|             |             | small       |             |             |
|             |             | business    |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | socio-econo |             |             |
|             |             | mic         |             |             |
|             |             | concerns to |             |             |
|             |             | leverage    |             |             |
|             |             | set aside   |             |             |
|             |             | programs    |             |             |
|             |             | and other   |             |             |
|             |             | authorities |             |             |
|             |             | to          |             |             |
|             |             | streamline  |             |             |
|             |             | the         |             |             |
|             |             | migration   |             |             |
|             |             | acquisition |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | to the      |             |             |
|             |             | greatest    |             |             |
|             |             | extent      |             |             |
|             |             | possible to |             |             |
|             |             | identify    |             |             |
|             |             | qualified   |             |             |
|             |             | 8(a)        |             |             |
|             |             | companies   |             |             |
|             |             | that are    |             |             |
|             |             | able to     |             |             |
|             |             | assist      |             |             |
|             |             | agencies    |             |             |
|             |             | with        |             |             |
|             |             | migrations  |             |             |
|             |             | to email    |             |             |
|             |             | cloud       |             |             |
|             |             | technologie |             |             |
|             |             | s.          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 40          | OMB         | Create      | \[For       | 180 days    |
|             |             | acquisition | internal    |             |
|             |             | /migration  | action\]    |             |
|             |             | cadres,     |             |             |
|             |             | consisting  |             |             |
|             |             | of          |             |             |
|             |             | information |             |             |
|             |             | technology  |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | acquisition |             |             |
|             |             | specialists |             |             |
|             |             | that will   |             |             |
|             |             | be sent to  |             |             |
|             |             | early       |             |             |
|             |             | adopter     |             |             |
|             |             | agencies to |             |             |
|             |             | help with   |             |             |
|             |             | license and |             |             |
|             |             | migration   |             |             |
|             |             | acquisition |             |             |
|             |             | s-related   |             |             |
|             |             | challenges. |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 41          | OMB, in     | Create a    | \[For       | 240 days    |
|             | coordinatio | pilot new   | internal    |             |
|             | n           | acquisition | action\]    |             |
|             | with GSA    | tactics for |             |             |
|             |             | cloud email |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | collaborati |             |             |
|             |             | on          |             |             |
|             |             | licenses    |             |             |
|             |             | including   |             |             |
|             |             | but not     |             |             |
|             |             | limited to  |             |             |
|             |             | those       |             |             |
|             |             | discussed   |             |             |
|             |             | above and   |             |             |
|             |             | outlined in |             |             |
|             |             | Appendix D. |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 42          | GSA         | Continue to | \[For       | None given  |
|             |             | work with   | internal    |             |
|             |             | existing    | action\]    |             |
|             |             | cloud email |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | collaborati |             |             |
|             |             | on          |             |             |
|             |             | providers,  |             |             |
|             |             | and will    |             |             |
|             |             | prioritize  |             |             |
|             |             | approval of |             |             |
|             |             | a           |             |             |
|             |             | FISMA-High  |             |             |
|             |             | offering.   |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| **Shared    |
| Services to |
| Enable      |
| Future      |
| Network     |
| Architectur |
| es**        |
|             |
| Improve     |
| Existing    |
| and Provide |
| Additional  |
| Security    |
| Shared      |
| Services    |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 43          | DHS, in     | Complete    | Government- | 60 days     |
|             | partnership | the         | wide        |             |
|             | with GSA    | acquisition | release     |             |
|             |             | strategy    |             |             |
|             |             | for new,    |             |             |
|             |             | long-term   |             |             |
|             |             | task orders |             |             |
|             |             | to offer    |             |             |
|             |             | CDM         |             |             |
|             |             | lifecycle   |             |             |
|             |             | support for |             |             |
|             |             | Phases 3    |             |             |
|             |             | and 4.      |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 44          | DHS         | Obtain      | \[For       | 125 days    |
|             |             | initial ATO | internal    |             |
|             |             | for CDM     | action\]    |             |
|             |             | Group F     |             |             |
|             |             | Platform.   |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | Submit a    |             |             |
|             |             | plan to OMB |             |             |
|             |             | that        |             |             |
|             |             | details the |             |             |
|             |             | expectation |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | timelines   |             |             |
|             |             | for         |             |             |
|             |             | onboarding  |             |             |
|             |             | non-CFO Act |             |             |
|             |             | agencies to |             |             |
|             |             | the SSP.    |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 45          | DHS         | Complete    | OMB         | 150 days    |
|             |             | the data    |             |             |
|             |             | exchanges   |             |             |
|             |             | between the |             |             |
|             |             | agency- and |             |             |
|             |             | Federal-lev |             |             |
|             |             | el          |             |             |
|             |             | dashboards  |             |             |
|             |             | to provide  |             |             |
|             |             | enterprise- |             |             |
|             |             | wide        |             |             |
|             |             | situational |             |             |
|             |             | awareness   |             |             |
|             |             | of an       |             |             |
|             |             | agency’s    |             |             |
|             |             | cyber       |             |             |
|             |             | posture.    |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 46          | DHS, in     | Implement a | \[For       | 180 days    |
|             | partnership | concept of  | internal    |             |
|             | with the    | operations  | action\]    |             |
|             | Federal CIO | for the     |             |             |
|             | Council     | Federal     |             |             |
|             |             | dashboard   |             |             |
|             |             | as well as  |             |             |
|             |             | procedures  |             |             |
|             |             | to manage   |             |             |
|             |             | cyber risks |             |             |
|             |             | across the  |             |             |
|             |             | Federal     |             |             |
|             |             | enterprise. |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 47          | OMB, GSA,   | Identify    | \[For       | 180 days    |
|             | and DHS     | potential   | internal    |             |
|             |             | offerings   | action\]    |             |
|             |             | to provide  |             |             |
|             |             | SOC as a    |             |             |
|             |             | Service     |             |             |
|             |             | capabilitie |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | to other    |             |             |
|             |             | agencies    |             |             |
|             |             | across the  |             |             |
|             |             | Federal     |             |             |
|             |             | Government. |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 48          | GSA, in     | Lead        | Government- | 180 days    |
|             | coordinatio | contracting | wide        |             |
|             | n           | efforts to  | release     |             |
|             | with OMB    | also offer  |             |             |
|             | and DHS     | commerciall |             |             |
|             |             | y           |             |             |
|             |             | available   |             |             |
|             |             | SOC as a    |             |             |
|             |             | Service     |             |             |
|             |             | capabilitie |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | to Federal  |             |             |
|             |             | agencies.   |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 49          | Selected    | Provide a   | OMB and DHS | 210 days    |
|             | Agency/ies  | pricing     |             |             |
|             |             | model in    |             |             |
|             |             | alignment   |             |             |
|             |             | with the    |             |             |
|             |             | cloud       |             |             |
|             |             | migration   |             |             |
|             |             | strategy    |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | timeline    |             |             |
|             |             | outlined    |             |             |
|             |             | within the  |             |             |
|             |             | Report.     |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 50          | DHS         | Work with   | \[For       | None given  |
|             |             | SOC-as-a-Se | internal    |             |
|             |             | rvice       | action\]    |             |
|             |             | providers   |             |             |
|             |             | to ensure   |             |             |
|             |             | that NCPS   |             |             |
|             |             | and CDM     |             |             |
|             |             | capabilitie |             |             |
|             |             | s           |             |             |
|             |             | and         |             |             |
|             |             | outcomes    |             |             |
|             |             | can be      |             |             |
|             |             | achieved    |             |             |
|             |             | and that    |             |             |
|             |             | the         |             |             |
|             |             | visibility  |             |             |
|             |             | remains     |             |             |
|             |             | aggregated  |             |             |
|             |             | across      |             |             |
|             |             | cloud and   |             |             |
|             |             | on premise  |             |             |
|             |             | security    |             |             |
|             |             | capabilitie |             |             |
|             |             | s.          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

**\
**

**Appendix G: Summary of Comments Received**

More than 100 companies and individuals submitted comments during the
three week public comment period for the IT Modernization Report.
Overall, the comments reaffirmed the importance of modernizing Federal
IT, and validated that the proposed approach is on the right track. The
comments offered diverse and at times conflicting suggestions, and
ranged from strategic thoughts to detailed implementation guidance.

The ATC strove to keep this report at a strategic level, and will make
the more detailed ‘implementation level’ comments available to the teams
who will drive specific modernization efforts across Federal IT. Several
comments also noted the need to fundamentally reform or tweak current
statutory provisions, and the ATC will provide these recommendations to
existing activities which are already charged with these statutory
reform areas.

All comments received are publically posted, but this appendix will
highlight some of the key themes that emerged during the comment review.

**Need for technical diversity and efficiency**

Many comments stressed the need to future-proof the Government’s
systems, keep pace with innovation and future standards, maintain vendor
and technology neutrality, and recognize the validity of diverse
approaches to securing data, applications, networks, and services.
Comments also suggested adopting modern approaches to development and
operations such as DevOps and continuous delivery and automate more of
the functional/security testing, integration, deployment, and operations
of applications.

**Accreditation and cybersecurity**

Comments emphasized the benefits of leveraging FedRAMP authorization,
suggested improvements to the FedRAMP process, asserted need to enforce
reciprocity, suggested utilizing the native security capabilities (such
as machine learning and big data analytics) offered by the cloud service
providers, and potential for automating the sharing of classified threat
intelligence with cleared service providers.

**Network modernization and data level security**

Comments emphasized the importance of network level security, advised
that tools should focus on outcomes not mechanisms, that controls must
be placed in closer proximity to the data, and that users, cloud APIs,
and individual devices need to be considered as access control shifts
from the network perimeter. Comments also emphasized that controls must
be placed in closer proximity to the data, and that cloud access
security brokers (CASBs) should be used to provide secure access to
cloud resources.

**Acquisition strategy and workforce **

Several comments indicated concern over halting or pausing acquisitions
in progress, the need for reform of the acquisition and budgeting
processes, and observations that acquisition cycles needed to become
more rapid and agile. Comments also suggested that the acquisition of
modern IT requires a holistic approach (technical, cybersecurity, and
contracting) supported by a trained and experienced workforce.

**Shared services and the acquisition pilot**

Comments suggested that the discussion and policy around shared service
be clarified. Several comments mentioned that contract consolidation on
EIS was essential, while others mentioned that the strategy might stifle
innovation and competition. The ATC is committed to the strategy of
leveraging the competitively awarded EIS contract to assist with
consolidation efforts. Comments suggested that the acquisition pilot
would be useful in proving out the Government’s objectives, while others
suggested it too narrowly scoped. Comments also recommended that
specific vendor names be removed from the notional examples in the
appendix.

Examples of key points derived from the comments is included in the
section below.

**Question 1 - What are major attributes that are missing from the
targeted vision? (Appendix A, Appendix B)**

Comments, in response to this question suggested the report should:

> \(i) make clear the section only described some of the approaches to be
> used;
>
> \(ii) include the concept of logical vice physical separation of data;
>
> \(iii) consider including multi-factor authentication;
>
> \(iv) consider including the concept of least privilege;
>
> \(v) consider expanding the discussion regarding software lifecycle
> automation and security testing.

Many of the comments confirmed that the attributes were on the right
track or offered additional suggestions and insights to attributes
proffered within the report.

**Question 2 - What are major attributes that should not be included in
the targeted vision?**

Comments, in response to this question, suggested the report should:

> \(i) remove references to specific companies;
>
> \(ii) remove or revise the suggestion that agencies halt procurement
> actions that are underway;
>
> \(iii) expand the description and approaches to cybersecurity assessment
> and authorization.

Many of the comments confirmed that the attributes were on the right
track or offered additional suggestions and insights to attributes
proffered within the report.

**Question 3 - Are there any missing or extraneous tasks in the plan for
implementing network modernization & consolidation? **

**Question 4 - Are there any missing or extraneous tasks in the plan for
implementing shared services to enable future network architectures? **

Comments and recommendations in response to questions 3 and 4 were
similar and suggested or implied that the report:

> \(i) should clarify the definition, description, and/or purpose of
> employing shared services;
>
> \(ii) should identify and address obstacles to adopting shared services
> or network consolidation;
>
> \(iii) should, relative to item (ii) recommend that a greater focus and
> actions be placed on addressing issues relative to the FAR;
>
> \(iv) should acknowledge need to reuse existing accreditation packages
> (aka foster reciprocity among agencies);
>
> \(v) relative to item (iv) above, should suggest an activity to improve
> reciprocity and identify capabilities to automate NIST RMF Framework;
>
> \(vi) reinforce the need for training and career development for
> professionals involved in accomplishing the goals articulated in the
> report.

Many of the comments confirmed that the tasks were appropriate and/or
offered additional enhancement to the identified tasks.

**Question 5 What is the feasibility of the proposed acquisition pilot?
(Appendix D)**

Comments, in response to this question, suggested that the report:

> \(i) should clarify the intent, purpose, scope, expected outcomes, and
> assessment criteria of-and-for the pilot;
>
> \(ii) should consider expanding the pilot to other shared services;
>
> \(iii) should de-identify service providers and include contracting
> options.

The comments generally confirmed that a pilot was a valid idea and
offered additional suggestions, approaches, and identified potential
pit-falls.

We want to express appreciation for the sincerity, depth of thought, and
time taken by each of the commenters and encourage the community to go
to the public website and read each of the submissions.



[^29]: See Footnote 9.

[^30]: DHS Office of the Inspector General, *Implementation Status of
    EINSTEIN 3 Accelerated*. March 2014.

[^31]: U.S. Government Accountability Office, Report 16-294, *DHS Needs
    to Enhance Capabilities, Improve Planning, and Support Greater
    Adoption of its NCPS*. January 2016.

[^32]: In FISMA, the term “information security” means protecting
    information and information systems from unauthorized access, use,
    disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to
    provide—

    \(A) integrity, which means guarding against improper information
    modification or destruction, and includes ensuring information
    nonrepudiation and authenticity;

    \(B) confidentiality, which means preserving authorized restrictions on
    access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy
    and proprietary information; and

    \(C) availability, which means ensuring timely and reliable access to and
    use of information.
