---
layout: base

title: Preface
permalink: /report/preface/
---

The United States is unparalleled in its commitment to protecting
Americans’ liberties and freedoms and is unmatched in its national
security infrastructure. Hardworking Americans have built the world’s
largest economy and solved some of the world’s greatest challenges
through innovations in science and technology. It is imperative for the
Federal Government to leverage these innovations to provide better
service for its citizens in the most cost-effective and secure manner.
This Administration has prioritized modernization of Federal information
technology (IT) systems, and to that end, has committed to help agencies
better leverage American innovations through increased use of commercial
technology.

As a demonstration of this commitment, on May 1, 2017, the President
[established the American Technology Council][1] (ATC) to effectuate the
secure and efficient use of IT across the Federal Government. Just
days later, on May 11, 2017, the President signed Executive Order (EO)
13800, [*Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure*][EO13800]. The latter EO tasks the Director of ATC to
coordinate a report to the President from the Secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB), and the Administrator of the General
Services Administration (GSA), in consultation with the Secretary of
Commerce (Commerce), regarding the modernization of Federal IT.

Acknowledging that Federal agencies are still working, and must continue
to work, to meet the objectives of other critical modernization
initiatives – for instance, by automating their manual processes,
deploying patches both responsively and preventatively, and by
transitioning away from unsupported software – this report outlines the
current and envisioned state of Federal IT, and it provides specific
recommendations to jumpstart a new wave of modernization efforts.

The enclosed plan incorporates the efforts of key Government
stakeholders in identifying ways for the Government to enhance its
cybersecurity posture, modernize the Federal IT enterprise, and create a
more robust partnership between Government and industry. Additionally,
the ATC has convened top private and public sector leaders to elicit and
incorporate input on the vision for the future of Federal IT, and it
intends to seek further input to ensure successful implementation of
modernization recommendations.


[1]: https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/05/01/presidential-executive-order-establishment-american-technology-council

[EO13800]: https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/05/11/presidential-executive-order-strengthening-cybersecurity-federal

