---
layout: base

title: Executive Summary
permalink: /report/executive-summary/
---

This report outlines a vision and recommendations
for the Federal Government to build a more modern and secure
architecture for Federal IT systems.[^3] Agencies have attempted to
modernize their systems but have been stymied as a result of a variety
of factors, including resource prioritization, ability to procure
services quickly, and technical issues. Recommendations to address the
aforementioned issues are grouped into two categories of effort: the
modernization and consolidation of networks, and the use of shared
services to enable future network architectures. In addition to specific
recommendations, this report outlines an agile process for updating
policies and reference architectures to help the Government more rapidly
leverage American innovation. In recognition of the importance of
industry to Federal IT Modernization efforts, it is our recommendation
that the President release this report for public feedback, have the
ATC, OMB, DHS, Commerce, and GSA adjudicate industry feedback, and then
resubmit a final report to the President that directly incorporates this
feedback.

**Network Modernization and Consolidation.** This report envisions a
modern Federal IT architecture where agencies are able to maximize
secure use of cloud computing, modernize Government-hosted applications,
and securely maintain legacy systems. Specific actions in this report
focus on the first two areas, where securely maintaining legacy systems
is addressed in other areas of [EO 13800][EO13800]. These actions enable agencies
to move from protection of their network perimeters and managing legacy
physical deployments toward protection of Federal data and
cloud-optimized deployments. The report also emphasizes a risk-based
approach that focuses agency resources on their highest value assets,
per OMBâ€™s authorities provided by [the Federal Information Security
Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA)][FISMA2014] and OMB Memorandum M-17-25,
[*Reporting Guidance for Executive Order on Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure*][M-17-25]. The
report addresses current impediments obstacles to adopting modernized
cloud technologies by piloting new implementation approaches, and using
these test cases to inform rapid policy updates. The report also focuses
on consolidating and improving acquisition of network services so that
management of security services for networks are consolidated where
possible and managed to high standards. Specific actions include:

1.  **Prioritize the Modernization of High-Risk High Value Assets (HVAs).**
    Prioritize modernization of legacy IT by focusing on
    enhancement of security and privacy controls for those assets that
    are essential for Federal agencies to serve the American people and
    whose security posture is most vulnerable.

2.  **Modernize the Trusted Internet Connections (TIC) and National Cybersecurity Protection System (NCPS) Program to Enable Cloud Migration.**
    Use real world implementation test cases to identify
    solutions to current barriers regarding agency cloud adoption.
    Update relevant network security policies and architectures to
    enable agencies to focus on both network and data-level security and
    privacy, while ensuring incident detection and prevention
    capabilities are modernized to address the latest threats.

3.  **Consolidate Network Acquisitions and Management.** Consolidate and
    standardize network and security service acquisition to take full
    advantage of economies of scale, while minimizing duplicative
    investments in existing security capabilities.

**Shared Services to Enable Future Network Architectures.** The
following section of this report lays out an approach to enable, with
ongoing Government-wide category management efforts, the Federal
Government to shift toward a consolidated IT model by adopting
centralized offerings for commodity IT. The recommendations detail steps
to address current impediments in policy, resource allocation, and
agency prioritization to enabling the use of cloud, collaboration tools,
and other security shared services. Specific actions include:

1.  **Enable use of Commercial Cloud.** Improve contract vehicles to
    enable agencies to acquire commercial cloud products that meet
    Government standards.

2.  **Accelerate Adoption of Cloud Email and Collaboration Tools.**
    Provide support for migration to cloud email and collaboration
    suites that leverage the Government's buying power. Define the next
    set of agencies to migrate to commercial email and collaboration
    suites.

3.  **Improve Existing and Provide Additional Security Shared Services.**
    Provide centralized capabilities that replace or augment
    existing agency-specific technology to improve both visibility and
    security.

**Resourcing Federal Network IT Modernization.** In order to implement
the Federal IT modernization efforts outlined in this report, agencies
will need to realign their IT resources appropriately using
business-focused, data-driven analysis and technical evaluation. OMB
will inform agencies that agency Chief Information Officers (CIOs) work
with their Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) and Senior Agency Officials
for Privacy (SAOPs), in consultation with OMB, to determine which of
their systems will be prioritized for modernization, identifying
strategies to reallocate resources appropriately. In accordance with the
terms of agency contracts and consistent with law, agencies should
consider immediately pausing or halting upcoming procurement actions
that further develop or enhance legacy IT systems identified that need
modernization. Agencies should also emphasize reprioritizing funds and
should consider "cut and invest" strategies that reallocate funding from
obsolete legacy IT systems to modern technologies, cloud solutions, and
shared services, using agile development practices where appropriate.

Taken together, these recommendations will modernize the security and
functionality of Federal IT, allow the Federal Government to improve
service delivery, and focus effort and resources on what is most
important to customers of Government services.


[^3]: Not to include national security systems as defined in Section
    3552(b)(6) of Title 44, United States Code.

[FISMA2014]: https://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113publ283.pdf

[M-17-25]: https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/memoranda/2017/M-17-25.pdf

[EO13800]: https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/05/11/presidential-executive-order-strengthening-cybersecurity-federal
