---
layout: base

title: Conclusions & Summary of Requests for Engagement
permalink: /report/conclusions/
---

Difficulties in agency prioritization of resources in support of IT
modernization, ability to procure services quickly, and technical issues
have resulted in an unwieldy and out-of-date Federal IT infrastructure
incapable of operating with the agility and security that is required of
a multibillion-dollar Federal IT enterprise. In order to aggressively
modernize IT systems, the Federal Government will need to maximize use
of shared services and commercial capabilities. In furtherance of this
objective, existing policies and programs will be rapidly and
iteratively updated to eliminate barriers to cloud adoption, and
agencies will rapidly migrate applicable capabilities to commercial
cloud services. Capabilities which will not be hosted in the commercial
cloud will be modernized to leverage modern security protections, and
agencies will assess risk of existing capabilities to prioritize
resources on protecting the most important systems and information. The
Federal Government will also accelerate the adoption of cloud email and
collaboration tools, improve and strengthen existing shared services,
and provide additional security shared services for agencies.

Achieving these goals will require an active shift in the mindset of
agency leadership, mission owners, IT practitioners, and oversight
bodies. Federal agencies must consolidate their IT investments and place
more trust in services and infrastructure operated by others. Such a
change in outlook will allow for greater utilization of shared services,
consolidated infrastructure, and cloud-based collaboration tools that
can deliver improved functionality and drive cost efficiencies to
improve Government operations and citizen services.