---
layout: base

appendix: true

title: "Appendix D: Acquisition Pilot: Change the Buying Strategy to
Government-As-One-Purchaser"
permalink: /report/appendices/acquisition-pilot/
---

## Applying Nash Equilibrium to Federal Acquisition of Cloud Email

Several challenges must be overcome in the acquisition cycle in order to
comply with EO 13800 and facilitate shared services, such as cloud
email. Budgets are constrained by yearly appropriations, and agencies
work autonomously, which reduces the Government’s ability to look at its
purchasing as a whole. Legacy procurement and security regulations,
coupled with lack of top down guidance for the logistics of a
Government-wide migration to cloud email challenge cloud adoption.

By creating virtual “street corners” for cloud email providers the
Federal Government can use competing market forces to drive
Government-wide volume pricing as a lever to speed migration. This will
apply Hotelling’s Law of spatial competition, wherein Government’s
potential purchasing power will be used to negotiate tiered pricing
agreements directly with the providers and result in publicly displayed
price points, total number of licenses purchased, and the remaining
number of mailboxes that need to be migrated. This volume pricing would
serve as the base rate for any license purchased by the Government.

### Dashboard Example (Cloud-Based E-mail)\*

In this scenario, data would be recorded with the current negotiated
pricing tiers, along with any incentive pricing based on other factors
such as the company’s quarterly sales cycles.

| **Gmail**                        | **Quarter/ Price per user/month** |
|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| Tier 1: 1 – 5,000 licenses       | Q1-3: $10 per user/month          |
|                                  | Q4: $9 per user/month             |
| Tier 2: 5,000 – 10,000 licenses  | Q1-3 $9.50 per user/month         |
|                                  | Q4: $9.45 per user/month          |
| Tier 3: 10,000 – 50,000 licenses | Q 1-4 $ 9.50 per user/month       |

\*These numbers are fabricated for this example only.

A running total of the licenses purchased would be displayed so that at
any time, end users would know the price point. This would be validated
with the companies for the official count.

**To date (6/29/17) Total Licenses purchased Government-wide:
1,345,000**

Pricing Level= Tier 3, Q2 = \$9.50 per user/month

**Total mailboxes to migrate:** 3,000,000

Benefits would include a more constructive and mutually-beneficial
ecosystem with private sector companies, better and more transparent
pricing for Government agencies, and an increased variety of available
secure solutions. This would also lead to more consistent implementation
and configurations across the Federal enterprise. Lastly, this would
incentivize agencies with smaller budgets to adopt cloud email earlier.

#### Assumptions

This assessment relies on the following assumptions:

-   Industry and private sector companies are not only willing to come
    to the table, but to actually collaborate with the Federal
    Government in pursuing this new approach to contracting;

-   Industry must be willing to negotiate fair and reasonable tiered
    volume pricing that will be made public. Departments, agencies, and
    industry must agree on metrics and public reporting and tracking of
    agency adoption of cloud email adoption;

-   Agencies must also be active in timely reporting of their data,
    which will be displayed publicly, in order to ensure as specific
    volumes are reached, discounts are provided; and

-   The Government has the ability to negotiate a manufacturer’s
    agreement that will be accepted by agencies.

#### Why This Works

A common strategy for many chains is to locate near a competitor. For
example, you will almost always see a CVS near a Walgreens or a Burger
King near a McDonalds. You will see food chains across the street or
next to each other in almost any city in the US. The thinking is that if
it works for the competitor, it will likely work for you. Studies have
shown repeatedly that as chains sprout up in adjacency, volume also goes
up. This strategy is commonly known as the Nash Equilibrium, a solution
concept of non-cooperative competition involving two or more “players,”
where each player knows the equilibrium strategies of the others and no
one has anything to gain by changing their own strategy.

Creating the Marketplace with Hotelling’s Law. In simple terms,
Hotelling’s Law determines that businesses selling similar products tend
to locate as close as possible in order to maintain the maximum amount
of market share possible. Creating a public display and accountability
to the total Government spend for the different types of cloud email and
the number of mailboxes left to be migrated will create this
marketplace.

This strategy also takes into account that re-sellers would still be
able to sell these licenses under existing GSA Schedules or Solutions
for Enterprise-Wide Procurement contracts; however, they would be
required to use the current price point, record the sale into the
dashboard, and make their re-seller fees transparent to Government as
the differentiation in competition. Ultimately, this will save business
development and contract negotiation time and effort between the email
providers and the re-sellers, which will drive down the overhead fees
the Government has to pay.

Services, configurations, and prices all negotiated openly and reported
publicly will not only ensure the most competitive rates for Government,
but also create an optimal strategy for the vendors themselves. This
dis-incentivizes vendors from focusing on the highest possible price
point for their services and, instead, refocuses the competition on
performance and quality of the offerings as a distinguishing factor.

### Pilot to Test the Hypothesis

The steps outlined below would be used to test the theory that this
would change the way we buy these services and establish a shared
service approach to license purchasing:

**Get Industry Buy-in and Feedback.** Capitalizing on the recent success
of the IT CEO Summit, the Office of American Innovation will call a
follow-up summit with interested cloud providers to discuss the
proposal. The goal would be to determine whether CSPs would be willing
to participate in a pilot of the Manufacturer’s Agreements with the
Federal Government. Suggested industry partners to target are Google,
Salesforce, Amazon, and Microsoft.

**Measure the Market.** A prerequisite to all other actions is to obtain
an accurate measurement of the market need in terms of agencies that
have not yet transitioned to cloud email solutions. While we have clear
data on implementation among the CFO Act agencies, currently there is no
definitive data source of small and independent agencies adoption of
cloud email. In order to negotiate effectively, knowing the size of the
market is imperative, therefore we need a data call to all agencies
regarding their current email contracts, prices, and number of
mailboxes, etc.

**Establish Focused Pilots with Partners.** ATC and OMB will work with a
small group of agencies to establish a pilot program to examine the
impact of the process changes being proposed. Additionally, they will
lead the creation of a series of support groups that would deploy to
agencies to provide technical, acquisition, and migration assistance and
report to ATC on the progress of the pilots.

**Create a Reporting Mechanism with Agencies and Industry.** The Federal
Government requires that accurate and up-to-date data around the current
state of both cloud and on-premises email adoption be reported by
agencies so as to develop a baseline against which agency progress may
be tracked. Industry sign-off on transparent reporting of units and
volume pricing is essential to the success of this proposal. Without it,
this strategy will ultimately fail. This is the foundation for achieving
Nash Equilibrium for both the Federal Government and industry.

### Metrics of Success

-   At least one cloud-based email service provider has signed up to
    negotiate a memorandum of understanding within 90 days of the report
    being published, which would allow the Government to begin capturing
    FY 2018 spending on cloud email migrations;

-   At least two agencies have signed on to pilot the proposed dashboard
    and provide reporting and acquisition of cloud email licenses under
    this effort; and

-   Within 30 days of qualified purchases, agencies or re-sellers will
    record the sale in the dashboard.
